README.md, before:

#Usage

Requires [sbt][] and the [Android SDK][]
(`brew install sbt android-sdk` when using [homebrew][] on OSX).

For those who are familiar with the 0.7.x plugin, there is a [migration guide][]
for a quick reference. The 0.7.x version is no longer maintained - but it is
still available in the [0.7.x][] branch. Support for the upcoming sbt 0.11 is in
the [sbt_011][] branch.

Using a [giter8][] template is the easiest way to create a new
project that uses the plugin. If you don't have giter8 installed:

    $ curl https://raw.github.com/n8han/conscript/master/setup.sh | sh
    $ ~/bin/cs n8han/giter8

Now create a new project with one of the Android templates:

    $ ~/bin/g8 jberkel/android-app             # sbt 0.10.x
    $ ~/bin/g8 jberkel/android-app -b sbt-0_11 # sbt 0.11.x

This will prompt you to customize a few values (press enter to accept
defaults), then create the project structure and all needed files plus
skeleton tests, specs and activities.

Since this plugin is currently not released you'll have to first build and
install it locally, follow the instruction in "Hacking on the plugin" below.

Then, to build the Android package:

    $ cd <your app name>
    $ export ANDROID_HOME=/path/to/sdk # or ANDROID_SDK_{HOME,ROOT}
    $ sbt # enter sbt's interactive mode

    > android:package-debug

To install and start the main activity in the [Android Emulator][]
(must already be running):

    > android:start-emulator

To build a signed package for release into the Marketplace:

    > android:prepare-market

##Launching the emulator from sbt

A developer can now fire up the Android Emulator from the sbt terminal
(hint: you can get a list of all avds with tab completion)

    > android:emulator-start <my_avd>

To list all devices or emulators

    > android:list-devices

To stop the emulator:

    > android:emulator-stop

##Scala Versions

The version of Scala that sbt compiles your project against is
configured in the `scalaVersion` property in the
`project/build.scala` file. You can set this to any Scala
version.

Whenever you change build versions, you'll need to run `update` again
to fetch dependencies. For more information, see the sbt documentation
on [cross-building][].


##Android manifest files

If you would like your AndroidManifest.xml file to automatically inherit
versionName and versionCode from your SBT project, add the
`AndroidManifestGenerator.settings` build settings to your project.
It will look for an AndroidManifest.xml file, and add versionName
and versionCode to that template.

##Typed resources references

As an enhancement to the Android build process, this plugin can
generate typed references to application layout elements. To enable,
add the `TypedResources.settings` build settings into your sbt project
definition. During compilation a file `TR.scala` will be generated
under `src_managed/main/scala`.

Typed resource references are created in an object `TR` (similar to
Android's standard `R`). These are handled by the method `findView`
defined in the traits `TypedView` and `TypedActivity`. There are also
implicit conversions defined in the object `TypedResource`; import
these to add the method on demand to any views and activities in
scope. The `findView` method casts the view to the known resource type
before returning it, so that application code can avoid the redundancy
of casting a resource to a type it has declared in the resource
definition.

Since Android's resource IDs are scoped to the application, a warning
is issued by the plugin when the same ID is used for different types
of a resources; the type of resources retrieved by that ID will be
unpredictable.

## Getting screenshots

In the sbt console run:

    > android:screenshot-emulator

or

    > android:screenshot-device

The screenshots will be written to `emulator.png` / `device.png` in the project
root directory.

## Fetch hprof memory dumps

    > android:hprof-emulator
    > android:hprof-device

##Building Java Android projects with sbt

If you don't use Scala yet and want to use the plugin to build your existing
Java app you can do by adding the `PlainJavaProject.settings` to your settings:

```scala
object AndroidBuild extends Build {
  lazy val main = Project (
    "My Project",
    file("."),
    settings = General.fullAndroidSettings ++ PlainJavaProject.settings
  )
}
```

This will change the defaults to the directory structure expected by Android's
`build.xml` file and skip the Proguard optimisation step.

##Building Android NDK projects

There is some basic NDK support in the android-plugin.
For now, it doesn't do anything else than call ndk-build during compilation
and clean up the obj and libs directories during cleanup.
This depends on an environment variable being set up: either `ANDROID_NDK_HOME` or `ANDROID_NDK_ROOT`.

Place your Android NDK sources in `src\main\jni`. Add the AndroidNdk.settings to your project:

```scala
  lazy val someProjectUsingNDK = Project(
    id = ...,
    ...
    settings = ... ++ AndroidBase.settings ++ AndroidNdk.settings
  )
```

## Hacking on the plugin

If you need make modifications to the plugin itself, you can compile
and install it locally (you need at least sbt 0.10.x to build it):

    $ git clone git://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin.git
    $ cd android-plugin
    $ sbt publish-local

##Mailing list

There's no official mailing list for the project but most contributors hang
out in [scala-on-android][] or [simple-build-tool][].

##Credits

This code is based on work by Walter Chang
([saisiyat](http://github.com/weihsiu/saisiyat/)), turned into a plugin by
[Mark Harrah](http://github.com/harrah), and maintained by
[Jan Berkel](https://github.com/jberkel).

A lot of people have contributed to the plugin; see [contributors][] for a full
list.

[sbt]: https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/wiki
[scala-on-android]: http://groups.google.com/group/scala-on-android
[simple-build-tool]: http://groups.google.com/group/simple-build-tool
[0.7.x]: https://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin/tree/0.7.x
[sbt_011]: https://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin/tree/sbt_011
[migration guide]: https://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin/wiki/migration_guide
[contributors]: https://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin/wiki/Contributors
[homebrew]: https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew
[giter8]: https://github.com/n8han/giter8#readme
[Android SDK]: http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html
[Android emulator]: http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/tools/emulator.html
[cross-building]: https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/wiki/Cross-Build

Commit message:

Allow for optimizations via ProGuard.
- Optionally optimize application code.

- Upgrade to ProGuard 4.6.

README.md, after:

#Usage

Requires [sbt][] and the [Android SDK][]
(`brew install sbt android-sdk` when using [homebrew][] on OSX).

For those who are familiar with the 0.7.x plugin, there is a [migration guide][]
for a quick reference. The 0.7.x version is no longer maintained - but it is
still available in the [0.7.x][] branch. Support for the upcoming sbt 0.11 is in
the [sbt_011][] branch.

Using a [giter8][] template is the easiest way to create a new
project that uses the plugin. If you don't have giter8 installed:

    $ curl https://raw.github.com/n8han/conscript/master/setup.sh | sh
    $ ~/bin/cs n8han/giter8

Now create a new project with one of the Android templates:

    $ ~/bin/g8 jberkel/android-app             # sbt 0.10.x
    $ ~/bin/g8 jberkel/android-app -b sbt-0_11 # sbt 0.11.x

This will prompt you to customize a few values (press enter to accept
defaults), then create the project structure and all needed files plus
skeleton tests, specs and activities.

Since this plugin is currently not released you'll have to first build and
install it locally, follow the instruction in "Hacking on the plugin" below.

Then, to build the Android package:

    $ cd <your app name>
    $ export ANDROID_HOME=/path/to/sdk # or ANDROID_SDK_{HOME,ROOT}
    $ sbt # enter sbt's interactive mode

    > android:package-debug

To install and start the main activity in the [Android Emulator][]
(must already be running):

    > android:start-emulator

To build a signed package for release into the Marketplace:

    > android:prepare-market

##Launching the emulator from sbt

A developer can now fire up the Android Emulator from the sbt terminal
(hint: you can get a list of all avds with tab completion)

    > android:emulator-start <my_avd>

To list all devices or emulators

    > android:list-devices

To stop the emulator:

    > android:emulator-stop

##Scala Versions

The version of Scala that sbt compiles your project against is
configured in the `scalaVersion` property in the
`project/build.scala` file. You can set this to any Scala
version.

Whenever you change build versions, you'll need to run `update` again
to fetch dependencies. For more information, see the sbt documentation
on [cross-building][].


##Android manifest files

If you would like your AndroidManifest.xml file to automatically inherit
versionName and versionCode from your SBT project, add the
`AndroidManifestGenerator.settings` build settings to your project.
It will look for an AndroidManifest.xml file, and add versionName
and versionCode to that template.

##Typed resources references

As an enhancement to the Android build process, this plugin can
generate typed references to application layout elements. To enable,
add the `TypedResources.settings` build settings into your sbt project
definition. During compilation a file `TR.scala` will be generated
under `src_managed/main/scala`.

Typed resource references are created in an object `TR` (similar to
Android's standard `R`). These are handled by the method `findView`
defined in the traits `TypedView` and `TypedActivity`. There are also
implicit conversions defined in the object `TypedResource`; import
these to add the method on demand to any views and activities in
scope. The `findView` method casts the view to the known resource type
before returning it, so that application code can avoid the redundancy
of casting a resource to a type it has declared in the resource
definition.

Since Android's resource IDs are scoped to the application, a warning
is issued by the plugin when the same ID is used for different types
of a resources; the type of resources retrieved by that ID will be
unpredictable.

## ProGuard optimizations

The plugin allows to run ProGuard optimizations on your classes. This
might improve the performance of your application dramatically, but also
break it easily. By default, the application is only shrinked by ProGuard,
but not optimized.

If you want to apply optimizations, you specify ProGuard
optimization options in your project like this:

```scala
  lazy val someOptimizedProject = Project(
    id = ...,
    ...
    settings = ... ++ inConfig(Android)(
        proguardOptimizations := Seq(
          "-optimizationpasses 8",
          "-dontpreverify",
          "-allowaccessmodification",
          "-optimizations !code/simplification/arithmetic"
        )
    )
  )
```

Please note that you will receive even more warnings from ProGuard
and dex when you apply optimizations.

## Getting screenshots

In the sbt console run:

    > android:screenshot-emulator

or

    > android:screenshot-device

The screenshots will be written to `emulator.png` / `device.png` in the project
root directory.

## Fetch hprof memory dumps

    > android:hprof-emulator
    > android:hprof-device

##Building Java Android projects with sbt

If you don't use Scala yet and want to use the plugin to build your existing
Java app you can do by adding the `PlainJavaProject.settings` to your settings:

```scala
object AndroidBuild extends Build {
  lazy val main = Project (
    "My Project",
    file("."),
    settings = General.fullAndroidSettings ++ PlainJavaProject.settings
  )
}
```

This will change the defaults to the directory structure expected by Android's
`build.xml` file and skip the Proguard optimisation step.

##Building Android NDK projects

There is some basic NDK support in the android-plugin.
For now, it doesn't do anything else than call ndk-build during compilation
and clean up the obj and libs directories during cleanup.
This depends on an environment variable being set up: either `ANDROID_NDK_HOME` or `ANDROID_NDK_ROOT`.

Place your Android NDK sources in `src\main\jni`. Add the AndroidNdk.settings to your project:

```scala
  lazy val someProjectUsingNDK = Project(
    id = ...,
    ...
    settings = ... ++ AndroidBase.settings ++ AndroidNdk.settings
  )
```

## Hacking on the plugin

If you need make modifications to the plugin itself, you can compile
and install it locally (you need at least sbt 0.10.x to build it):

    $ git clone git://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin.git
    $ cd android-plugin
    $ sbt publish-local

##Mailing list

There's no official mailing list for the project but most contributors hang
out in [scala-on-android][] or [simple-build-tool][].

##Credits

This code is based on work by Walter Chang
([saisiyat](http://github.com/weihsiu/saisiyat/)), turned into a plugin by
[Mark Harrah](http://github.com/harrah), and maintained by
[Jan Berkel](https://github.com/jberkel).

A lot of people have contributed to the plugin; see [contributors][] for a full
list.

[sbt]: https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/wiki
[scala-on-android]: http://groups.google.com/group/scala-on-android
[simple-build-tool]: http://groups.google.com/group/simple-build-tool
[0.7.x]: https://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin/tree/0.7.x
[sbt_011]: https://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin/tree/sbt_011
[migration guide]: https://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin/wiki/migration_guide
[contributors]: https://github.com/jberkel/android-plugin/wiki/Contributors
[homebrew]: https://github.com/mxcl/homebrew
[giter8]: https://github.com/n8han/giter8#readme
[Android SDK]: http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html
[Android emulator]: http://developer.android.com/guide/developing/tools/emulator.html
[cross-building]: https://github.com/harrah/xsbt/wiki/Cross-Build
